you know the time of the wild mountain
goats they're young or can you mark when
the deer gives birth can you number the
months that they fulfill or do you know
the time when they bear young they bow
down they bring forth their young they
deliver their offspring their young ones
are healthy they grow strong with grain
they depart and do not return to them
who set the wild donkey free who loosed
the bonds of the honor who's home I have
made the wilderness and the barren land
his dwelling he scorns the tumult of the
city he does not heed the shouts of the
driver the range of the mountains is his
pasture and he searches after every
green thing will the wild ox be willing
to serve you will he bed by your manger
can you bind to the wild ox in the
furrow with ropes or will he plough the
valleys behind you will you trust him
because his strength is great or will
you leave your labor to
will you trust him to bring home your
grain and gather it to your threshing
floor the wings of the ostrich waved
proudly but are her wings and pinions
like the kindly storks for she leaves
her eggs on the ground and warms them in
the dummest she forgets that a foot may
crush them or that a wild beast may
break them she treats her young harshly
as though they were not hers her labor
is in vain without concern because God
deprived her of wisdom and did not endow
her with understanding when she lifts
herself on high
she scorns the horse and it's rider have
you given the horse strength have you
closed his neck with thunder can you
frighten him like a locust his majestic
snorting strikes terror he pause in the
valley and rejoices in his strength he
gallops into the clash of arms he mocks
at fear and is not frightened nor does
he turn back from the sword the quiver
rattles against him for glittering spear
and
he devours the distance with fierceness
and rage nor does he come to a halt
because that trumpet has sounded at the
blast of the trumpet he says aha he
smells the battle from afar the thunder
of captains and shouting does the hawk
fly by your wisdom and spread its wings
toward the south does the Eagle mount up
at your command and make its nest on
high on the rock it dwells and resides
on the crag of the rock and the
stronghold from there it spies out the
prey its eyes observe from a farm its
young ones suck up blood and wear the
slain are there it is
you